#Automation the rediffmail application

Business Scenario of the application can be :

a) Send Mail Procedure
b) Saving an email
c) Deleting a email  - which will send it to trash
d) Trashing an email - permanent deletion


Any business scenario will have transactional steps. For e.g the Send mail procedure will have the 
following transactional steps

1. Opening the browser
2. Navigate to the url
3. Type the username - Edit box
4. Type the password - Edit box
5. Click the GO button - Button
6  Click on the Write Mail - Link
7. Type the To  - Edit box
8. Type in subject area - Edit box
9. Type in Compose Area - Edit box
10. Click on the Send - Link
11. Click on Logout - Link

These 11 steps will be part of Selenium script. Apart from that any automation script should contain 
validation points without the script is dead script. 

A) The validation points for the landing page /Login page of Rediffmail application can be an image, 
a static text or labels of a button or text of the edit boxes.

1. Validation points for the landing - Test of username field, text of password field, label of Go 
button

B) The validation point for the Inbox page can be the text of the Inbox link. This validation point is 
taken to ensure that we are in the INBOX page.

1. Validation point for the Inbox page - Text of Inbox link

C) Validation of respective web elements in the inbox page for the purpose of sending an email

1. Validate the text of the TO link, validate the text of the Subject area , Validation of Send link 
by validating its text, Validation of Logout link's text.


If we create these validation, the steps in the automation script will be the following:

1. Opening the browser
2. Navigate to the url
3. Single validation/checkpoint to validate that we are in the landing page - Rediffmail static text
4. Validating username edit box text
5. Type the username - Edit box
6. Validating password edit box text
7. Type the password - Edit box
8. Validation the label of GO button
9. Click the GO button - Button
10. Validation point to ensure that we are in the Inbox page - Validating the text of the inbox link
11.  Validating the text of the Write Mail link
12. Click on the Write Mail - Link
13. Validating the text of the TO link
14. Type the To  - Edit box
15. Validating the text of the Subject edit box
16. Type in subject area - Edit box
17. Type in Compose Area - Edit box
18. Validating the text of the Send link
19. Click on the Send - Link
20. Validating the text of logout link
21. Click on Logout - Link




